I feel like we're going to do another
reaction with in a couple years time or
months where Joe Rogan's actually going
to become a theist with Joe Rogan for
someone to be a celebrity to have access
to pretty much everything to still be
interested in this topic what does it
tell you about human nature it just
shows you the F and now people are
waking up atheism is dead I mean if you
think about it it is actually
dead by the grace of Allah subhah wa
tala the response has been overwhelming
to say the very least alhamdulillah
we've had social media personalities and
respected Scholars sh from many parts of
the Muslim world promoting the cause we
have raised almost 1.4 million
alhamdulillah and we haven't been
sitting idy waiting to hit our Target of
2 million we have fully purchased four
properties in London transferred their
ownership to the W after the help of
Allah subhah wa tala none of this would
be possible without your support so we
thank you once again this is our update
to yourselves we encourage you to stay
tuned for more updates now that the work
alhamdulillah is truly underway asalam
alikum welcome to this video we are
going to be reacting to Joe Rogan and
Stephen Meyers podcast do you watch Joe
Rogan I don't I watch like here and
there Clips here and there but I don't
I've never watched a full podcast okay
so I love watching Joe Rogan I have to
admit I I thought you didn't I think you
didn't expect that when I told you this
before no he didn't very long podcast
but interesting very interesting stuff
he speaks about science and thing is he
speaks everyone speaks to atheist speaks
to theist speaks to people interested in
Aliens speaks to people that do drugs
everything you can imagine politics
everyone left right you must have seen
his Clips everywhere I've seen his Clips
definitely I've never watched the whole
thing you told me that a lot of drug
drug um he's into psychedelics and LS
this watch him you're not one of no I'm
not I'm not I'm not and he's had Trump
he's had Elon Musk he's had you know all
these famous people so firstly why is he
interested in this topic because
everyone's affected by this is there a
God is their design is their life after
death is their spirituality are we will
matter no one can escape this no matter
how rich or popular you are exactly and
I think Jo R is a stun agnostic atheist
he's been very vocal about you know
religion being you know this or that he
really looks down of it so to me let's
see because I I I really want to see is
he inclining towards uh being an
intelligent design there have been big
shifts in science and philosophy that
are putting materialism on the defensive
and are opening people to u to spiritual
realities that were not uh even
considered uh in the late 19th century
among Elite intellectuals or among most
elite intellectuals through the last 100
years but I think that's shifting I
think there's a real danger of being an
elite intellectual and all agreeing upon
a very specific thing that gives you
social credit to sort of a espouse we've
seen that in a lot of things yeah yeah
we certainly have and it's just there's
so many Mysteries and the the mystery of
design the possibility of design is so
intriguing to so many people and and it
mean so many different things to so many
different people like what whoa when I
heard that yeah cuz I was listening to
this three-hour podcast I think I was
going jym different things I was like
whoo like this guy he's saying the
possibility of design is so intriguing
to so many different to so many people
and you know he like I didn't expect him
to have that reaction also it's
unexpected that he's going to be talking
to Steven Meyer who's an intelligent
design proponent about his books about
his ideas about spirituality and in this
clip he also talks about the danger of
being an elite intellectual and agreeing
upon basically scientific materialism
everything's matter so he's definitely
moving away from the Dawkins new atheism
type of
scientism the last point you mentioned
say that again he's saying what about
the elit you know being an intellectual
Elite there's a danger where everybody
comes together and then they they agree
this is real it and then they blinker
they have this blinkered view of okay
basically to say that cuz you know in s
you can't come and say this is an
established fact there's a lot of like
hypo um there's a lot of hypothesis you
get it and there's a lot of like
theories fluctuations exactly but also
the rejection of spirituality rejection
of God and they speak so boldly that's
the reason why when he was talking about
um uh what's his name Dennis Noble you
know when it was interviewed by that
those two young kids cuz he's he's
talking about uh directed directed
Evolution yeah or in
they were they were saying look we
you're doing this research Etc but this
is going to open the door to believing
in God again and we know that Francis
Crick you know he spoke about you know
we leave God outside uh whatever you see
evolved it wasn't designed you cannot
bring God into the picture so it's
interesting that Joe Rogan being so stor
and you know making it seem as if
religious people are a bit you know I
mean a standard American liberal right
religions backwards this that but yeah
he's deemed this topic important enough
because look Steven Meyer all he's known
for is to talk about God yeah and in
fact he is the exact opposite of Dawkins
they both they both come from a uh
Evolution background biology background
one believes in God one doesn't one's a
hardcore materialist one is a hardcore
believer in God a theist but he's
recommending his books exactly and and
he saying it's intriguing and he also
you know he talks about so it shows that
you know when someone's really lost you
know for him to be like you know what
it's not just the material world it is a
thing of like it's like an adventur like
my gosh what are the possibilities
what's next so he's really intrigued and
it it shows that I I can see him coming
to believe in a higher power and
intelligence I mean with these words
clearly he's rejected this type of
materialism hardcore materialism they
both have but that's the first segue
exactly into this so let's see what else
they're talking about like what what
does that mean is the universe alive is
it is it is it a part of something
that's even bigger than that is is the
universe itself just an atom and some in
infinite being that is also a part of a
universe that's an atom and another
infinite being I mean this is why I
wrote Return of the god hypothesis the
fir in the first two books um the first
book was signature in the cell about the
origin of the first life and I argued
that the information bearing properties
of DNA and the information processing
system that's present in even the very
simplest
cell presents a profound challenge to
the idea of undirected evolutionary
processes a mind had to be involved
because what we know from our uniform
and repeated experience is that whenever
we see information and we trace it back
to its source whether we're talking
about computer code or a hieroglyphic
inscription or a paragraph in a book or
information in embedded in a radio
signal we always come to a mind not an
undirected material process the people
looking for extraterrestrial
intelligence with seti were looking for
information Rich sequences embedded
modulated in a radio signal and had they
found them they would have concluded yes
there is definitely an extraterrestrial
intelligence that's profound because
he's saying that information reach
sequence so basically even when we're
looking for is there life on other
planets we're looking for what
information because we know information
points to an intelligence and he's
referring here not to people who believe
in God any scientist who's looking for
life they could be a believer or not
believer that is profound so he's
basically the logic of the design
argument is there information specified
complex designer bro that's so profound
I'm going to use that in my arguments
because basically what that means is
whoever you are when you are looking for
life in other planets like we're talking
about direct of ppia which Richard
Dawkins admitted you know there might be
aliens somewhere yeah no problem that
means in order for you to establish this
aliens you look for what um information
reach sequences meaning you look for
information so you can say ah there's
intelligence we're saying du what about
your DNA do you get what I'm trying to
say you can't make this stuff up exactly
and what they do is whenever we use the
argument from DNA or this or that they
say oh there's bad design or we haven't
seen the designer but when it comes for
them to look for intelligence out there
they look for information so they don't
disagree with our logic they disagree
when they know it's going to lead to God
exactly the problem ex that's that's
always been a problem they do they they
believe just like us the only the
difference is that they do not believe
it's a power a source of power an
Intelligence being that has a will
that's the only difference yeah with Joe
Rogan one thing I wanted to add is for
someone to be a celebrity to have access
to pretty much everything right to still
be interested in this topic what does it
tell you about human nature it just
shows you the F there there's that
innate going is that question we always
asking why why am I here who put me here
it's this I had this question when I was
very young bro like deep deep thought
it's just like you ask it's a normal
human nature it's like eating food you
ask the question why the hell am I here
man who put me here it's these questions
that allows you to find God and if
you've noticed shayan's job is to keep
you occupied that you don't have time to
think about this stuff and when you do
have those moments where you're like H
hold on a second actually why am I here
where am I going you know this is when
it provokes the question to you know
there has to be something bigger and
many people I know have come to Islam
and uh choosing religion and believing
in God because of these simple questions
absolutely no one has found such a
signal yet but the presumption that
information is a decisive indicator of
Prior intelligence is shared not just by
theists or Christians it was shared by
the steady people you know uh or ID
people um but having made that argument
my readers then wanted to know well who
do you think the designing intelligence
is and what can science tell us about
that and what I do in the new book is
look at
competing metaphysical hypothesis theism
deism pantheism
panentheism space
alienism um and good oldfashioned
materialism and and then compare their
explanatory power with respect to these
big three things that science has
discovered that the Universe had a
beginning that it's been finally tuned
from the beginning and that since the
beginning we've had these big infusions
of new code into our biosphere that make
new new forms of life possible I think
theism provides the best overall
explanation of that but I do think it is
a completely new day that that it's it's
the scientific materialism of the 19th
century that's getting weird and exotic
and and I think that's a way of saying
that there's must be something more than
just these simple simplistic
materialistic explanations that we have
defined as coextensive with science in
such that we will not consider anything
outside that box so you know what's
really powerful about that what's really
powerful is he's basically
saying when we have scientific
materialism that there's nothing but
atoms right the way that they have to
try and explain all of reality the
universe having a beginning the universe
being fine-tuned they're being code in
life and life being conscious and life
having intentionality and aboutness and
the fact that we're moral agents and we
have these experiences when you break
down all of this and you try and break
it down in terms of atoms doesn't make
any sense yeah and the the most harshest
reality of this is atheists don't like
the consequences of atheism because if
atheism is true there is no human rights
there is no morality there's no
intrinsic worth there is no every single
thing that we experience you know I love
this person I want to protect my child I
want no these are just chemical firings
it's all it is it has no intrinsic value
at all exactly I mean I feel like we're
going to do another reaction video in a
couple years time or months where Joe is
actually going to become a theist I
think he's going to say you know what
this this is logically thinking you know
a lot of people SD they follow Trends
and culture and fashion and Atheism was
that it came and went it was just a
fashion people with insecurities infer
complex jumped on it and now people are
waking up atheism is dead I mean if you
think about it it is actually dead you
know he has nothing to offer it's
literally not spiritually not physically
has nothing to offer so now people are
waking up and to see Joe Rogan heading
towards the direction of accepting an
intelligent design or even intrigued
that the possibility to me shows that I
think we're do another reaction very
soon and he's going to be like you know
what there's definitely an intentional
absolutely absolutely for watching
please like share and subscribe and
inshallah we're going to be reacting to
more videos in the future see you again
thank you